Add draft for 14.4 release notes (#16299)
opf/openproject: docs/release-notes/14-4-0/README.md

release_version: 14.4.0
release_date: 2024-08-14
---

# OpenProject 14.4.0

Release date: 2024-08-14

We released [OpenProject 14.4.0](https://community.openproject.org/versions/2063). The release contains several bug fixes and we recommend updating to the newest version. 

In these Release Notes, we will give an overview of important technical updates as well as important feature changes. At the end, you will find a complete list of all changes and bug fixes.

## Important technical updates

### Extend API authentication to accept JWT issued by OpenID provider to other client

OpenProject 14.4 introduces a new feature that allows OpenID clients, such as Nextcloud servers, to use access tokens obtained from an OpenID provider, like Keycloak, as an authentication mechanism for the OpenProject API. This enhancement **enables users to skip the OAuth grant flow**, streamlining the authentication process.

With this feature, the OpenProject API will validate access tokens issued by the OpenID provider (Keycloak) by checking the token's signature and authenticating the user using the sub claim value. This integration ensures secure and efficient API authentication for OpenID clients.

> For more details, see https://community.openproject.org/wp/55643.

Reviewer: Maybe also link to the documentation here: /docs/api/introduction/#oidc-provider-generated-jwt-as-a-bearer-token

### Improve error messages and logs of automatically managed project folders synchronization services/jobs

OpenProject 14.4 introduces significant enhancements to logging, debugging, and error messages for automatically managed project folders synchronization services and jobs. These improvements aim to provide clearer messages and more detailed logs for both administrators and users.

Up to now, the system faced issues such as unclear error messages, insufficient log details, and a lack of localized error messages. To address these problems, **the system now provides context-specific error messages** instead of vague ones. For example, instead of "Outbound request destination not found," the system will now display messages like 'The file #{file_link.origin_name} was not found on #{storage_name}', which will also be localized to improve clarity.

Additionally, the logging structure has been enhanced to provide more detailed, tagged entries for better traceability.

For more details, see https://community.openproject.org/wp/56861.

## Important feature changes

### Personal settings: Dark mode

> Dark mode for OpenProject is finally here! In the 'My account' section under 'Settings', there is an **option labeled 'Mode' where users can now select 'Dark (Beta).'** – as an alternative to the light mode. When the dark mode is selected, the change applies only to that user, not to the entire instance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dark mode for OpenProject is finally here! In the '[My account](../../getting-started/my-account/#profile-settings)' section under 'Settings', there is an **option labeled 'Mode' where users can now select 'Dark (Beta).'** – as an alternative to the light mode. When the dark mode is selected, the change applies only to that user, not to the entire instance. 
```

![News setting for dark mode in OpenProject, displayed in dark mode](openproject-14-4-dark-mode.png)

Please note that this feature has been tested extensively, and we believe it works well. However, users might encounter issues that we haven't seen. Therefore, it will remain in beta for now, until we resolve all potential errors and ensure there are no issues.

For more details, see https://community.openproject.org/wp/36233.

### Project attributes: Separate permissions for viewing and editing

> In OpenProject 14.4, new permissions for managing project attributes provide project admins with more control over who can view and edit these attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In OpenProject 14.4, new permissions for managing [project attributes](../../user-guide/projects/project-settings/project-attributes/) provide project admins with more control over who can view and edit these attributes.
```

See https://community.openproject.org/wp/56045 for more information on this feature.

### Show changes of long text custom fields in the activity similar to changes in the description

To keep the activity view cleaner when multiple changes are made to long text custom fields, OpenProject 14.4 now **displays updates to long custom fields in a similar format to description updates**. As a user watching the activity, you will see an indication of changes to long text custom fields, making it easier to manage and review activities.

In the activity tab, updates to long text custom fields will be displayed as in the following example – 'Remarks' being a custom field:

![Example screenshot showing how changes on a custom field will now look like in the work package activity tab](Custom_field__long_text__changed.png)

Clicking on the "Details" link will take the user to the diff view, which is also used for work package descriptions and project status explanations.

> <!--more-->

Reviewer: You could add the link to the docs: /user-guide/projects/project-settings/custom-fields/ and/or
/docs/system-admin-guide/custom-fields/
